#summary JQuery UI based textarea widget that provides a maximum character length and text selection functionality.
#labels Featured

=Textarea API=

<table cellspacing="10px">
	<tr>
		<td><h3>[#Options Options]</h3></td>
		<td><h3>[#Methods Methods]</h3></td>
		<td><h3>[#Events Events]</h3></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>[#charLimitMessage charLimitMessage]</td>
		<td>[#afterCursor() afterCursor]</td>
		<td>[#afterChange(event,_data) afterChange]</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>[#limitMessageClass limitMessageClass]</td>
		<td>[#beforeCursor() beforeCursor]</td>
		<td>[#beforeChange(event,_data) beforeChange]</td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>[#limitMessageStyle limitMessageStyle]</td>
		<td>[#destroy() destroy]</td>
		<td></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>[#maxChars maxChars]</td>
		<td>[#refresh() refresh]</td>
		<td></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td>[#pasteFlickerFix pasteFlickerFix]</td>
		<td>[#remaining() remaining]</td>
		<td></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td></td>
		<td>[#replaceSelection(replacement) replaceSelection]</td>
		<td></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td></td>
		<td>[#selectedText() selectedText]</td>
		<td></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td></td>
		<td>[#selectionEnd() selectionEnd]</td>
		<td></td>
	</tr>
	<tr>
		<td></td>
		<td>[#selectionStart() selectionStart]</td>
		<td></td>
	</tr>
</table>

---------------------------------------

==Options==
====charLimitMessage====
The message displayed to the user to communicate the character limit info. The place holders {MAX}, {ENTERED} and {REMAINING} can be use to substitute the current value for max characters, characters entered and characters remaining.
 
*Type:* String

*Default:* ""
---------------------------------------
  
====limitMessageClass====
List of CSS classes to be applied to the limit message.

*Type:* String

*Default:* ""
---------------------------------------

====limitMessageStyle====
CSS style applied to limit message.

*Type:* String or Object

*Default:* {"height": "16px", "font-size": ".8em", "position": "relative", "margin": "-3px 0 0 3px"}
---------------------------------------
 
====maxChars====
Number or function returning the number of chars allowed. Using a function is valuable for dynamic limits, for example, when the limit depends on the contents of another textarea.

*Type:* Number or function returning the number of chars allowed. Using a function is valuable for dynamic limits, for example, when the limit depends on the contents of another textarea.

*Default:* -1
---------------------------------------
 
====pasteFlickerFix====
Turning this off will help performance but you'll see a flicker in some browsers when text that's too long is pasted into the textarea.

*Type:* Boolean

*Default:* true
---------------------------------------

==Methods==
====afterCursor()====
Get the text after the current cursor location.

*Returns:* *Returns:* [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#String String]
---------------------------------------

====beforeCursor()====
Get the text before the current cursor location.

*Returns:* *Returns:* [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#String String]
---------------------------------------

====destroy()====
Destroy the text area, removing all functionality added by the plugin.

---------------------------------------

====refresh()====
Refresh the text area. This is useful for updating the char limit message on a textarea with a dynamic character limit, e.g. when the limit is based on the content of multiple textareas

---------------------------------------
====remaining()====
Get the remaining number of characters that can be entered

*Returns:* [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Number Number]

---------------------------------------
====replaceSelection(replacement)====
Replace the current selection with the text specified by the replacement parameter.

 * *replacement*
 Type: [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#String String]

 The text that will replace the current selection.
 
---------------------------------------
====selectedText()====
Get the current text selection.

*Returns:* *Returns:* [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#String String]
 
---------------------------------------
====selectedText(start, end)==== 
Set the current text selection using the provided start and end values.

 * *start*
 Type: [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Integer Integer]

 A zero based index indicating where to start the selection. The character at this index will be included in the selection.

 * *end*
 Type: [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Integer Integer]

 A zero based index indicating where to stop the selection. the character at this index will not be included in the selection.
 	
---------------------------------------
====selectionEnd()====
Get the index of the character at the end of the current selection.

 
*Returns:* *Returns:* [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Number Number]
  
---------------------------------------
====selectionStart()====
Get the index of the character at the start of the current selection.

*Returns:* *Returns:* [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Number Number]

---------------------------------------

==Events==
====afterChange(event, data)====
Triggered when the text is changed after the limit message has been updated.

 * *event*
 Type: [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Event Event]

 * *data*
 Type: [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Object Object]
 
---------------------------------------
====beforeChange(event, data)====
Triggered when a key is pressed or when content is pasted into the textarea. If a limit message exists, this event is fired before the limit message is updated.

 * *event*
 Type: [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Event Event]

 * *data*
 Type: [http://api.jquery.com/Types/#Object Object]